[Music]
while washing your hands is vital if
you're worried about germs on your phone
you can clean it effectively with simple
soap and water hi I'm dr. Linus Eric I'm
a microbiologist at University College
London and I'm gonna show you how to
clean your brain unplug your phone turn
it off and remove the case all the
manger phone makers warned against using
chemicals hand gels and abrasive wipes
on your device as this can damage the
screens protective coating dampen a
microfiber cloth with water and simple
household soap
gently rub the surfaces of the phone
with the damp cloth take care not to get
moisture in any of the openings because
even water-resistant phones lose their
protection over time finally dry your
phone with a clean microfiber cloth even
just using soap and water can
effectively remove bacteria and viruses
from your phone and we can test that by
using this little device and these swaps
the device gives a reading of relative
light units or RL use and that's a
measure of the microbial activity on
your phone so the higher the number the
more germs are present we tested all of
these phones and their cases before and
after cleaning with soapy water and they
were all significantly cleaner
afterwards on a surgical surface we'd
want to get a figure of 50 or less and
all of our phones and cases had readings
lower than that if you have an iPhone
Apple says you can safely clean it with
70% isopropyl alcohol wipes these are
the ones that you can get from computer
shops or online there are also devices
that you can use to sterilize your phone
using ultraviolet UVC radiation these
shouldn't harm your device but some
phones or cases could be discolored over
time just remember with all of these
methods as soon as you touch your phone
you're going to get germs back onto it
so make sure that you keep washing your
hands regularly and thoroughly
you